DOCS-1527,DOCS-1594: Refactor Module create page (#2401)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/registry/create/_index.md

You can search the [Viam Registry](https://app.viam.com/registry) and [deploy an existing module to your machine](/registry/configure/) in a few clicks if you find one that meets your needs.
Or you can write your own module to address your specific use case, and either upload it to the Viam registry to share with others, or deploy it to your machine as a local module without uploading to the registry.

Follow the instructions below to learn how to write a new module using your preferred language and its corresponding [Viam SDK](/sdks/).

## Overview of a module

Generally, to write a module, you:

1. [Define a new resource model](#define-a-new-resource-model) to define all the capabilities of your model.
1. [Write an entry point (main program) file](#write-an-entry-point-main-program-file) to serve as the central interface to those new capabilities.
1. [Compile or package](#compile-or-package-your-module) the model definition file or files, main program file, and any supporting files into a single executable file (a module) that can be run by `viam-server`.

> While you can certainly combine the resource model definition and the main program code into a single file if desired (for example, a single `main.py` program that includes both the model definition and the `main()` program that uses it), this guide will use separate files for each.

Reviewer: > this guide will use separate files for each

Do we have a reason for this that we can share? Is it for clarity or separation of concerns?

Author: _Theory:_ The latter, great insight. My thinking:
- Keeping a clear path forward from concept to concept, as much as we can here.
- While some of our most simple examples across our repos do use one file for both 1 and 2, all of the more complicated ones use two. Starting with this file structure from the beginning might set users up for success when they later transition to module design that accomplished more complicated tasks, like a component and a service working together.
- This also helps us to demonstrate including other files and referencing the methods/functions contained within them.

_Practice:_ But, mostly, at the end of the day: our existing sample code for all three languages was split in this fashion. Refactoring to a single file for each would be much work, and for minimal gain.

But I will add context to this statement here for the end user. Thanks!

    "modular resources",
    "components",
    "services",
    "registry",
  ]

> description: "Create a module to provide a new modular resource to your Viam machine."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Create a module to provide a new modular resource to your machine."
```

aliases:
  - "/extend/modular-resources/create/"
  - "/modular-resources/create/"
no_list: true
---

> Viam provides built-in support for a variety of different {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="component" text="components" >}} and {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="service" text="services" >}} -- collectively called {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}} -- but you might want to use Viam with a new component type or service model that isn't currently supported.

Reviewer 2: I'm not a huge fan of the interjecting additional information with dashes thing. I think that's generally frowned upon. Maybe we can split it into 2 sentences instead?

> To extend support to these resources, you can create a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}}.

Reviewer 2: I don't know what this sentence is supposed to mean. Maybe?
```suggestion
If the existing resources do not support your hardware or service requirements, you can create a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="module" text="module" >}}.
```

Author: Trying something different, LMK what you think.

1. [Write an entry point (main program) file](#write-an-entry-point-main-program-file) to serve as the central interface to those new capabilities.
1. [Compile or package](#compile-or-package-your-module) the model definition file or files, main program file, and any supporting files into a single executable file (a module) that can be run by `viam-server`.

While you can certainly combine the resource model definition and the main program code into a single file if desired (for example, a single `main.py` program that includes both the model definition and the `main()` program that uses it), this guide will use separate files for each.

Most modules extend an existing [component API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis) or [service API](/build/program/apis/#service-apis) to add support for a new type of that resource.
For example, you could extend the [camera component API](/components/camera/#api) to support new image formats or a new type of camera, or extend the [ML model service API](/build/program/apis/#ml-model) to support a new machine learning (ML) model type beyond `tflite`.

{{% alert title=Note color="note" %}}

> If you want to write a module to extend support to a new type of component that is relatively unique, and doesn't readily correspond to an existing [built-in component API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis), you may want to consider using the [generic API](/components/generic/) with your module instead of extending an existing API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to write a module to extend support to a new type of component that is relatively unique, and doesn't readily correspond to an existing [built-in component API](/build/program/apis/#component-apis), consider using the [generic API](/components/generic/) with your module instead of extending an existing API.
```

Determine the model name you want to use based on these requirements, then proceed to the next section.

If you do not intend to [upload your module](/registry/upload/) to the [Viam registry](https://app.viam.com/registry), you do not need to use your organization's namespace as your model's namespace.

See [Naming your model](/registry/#naming-your-model-namespacerepo-namename) for more information.

### Write your new resource model definition

Follow the instructions below to define the capabilities provided by your model, for the language you are using to write your module code:

{{% alert title="Note: Pin numbers" color="note" %}}

If your module references {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pin-number" text="pin numbers" >}}, you should use physical board pin numbers, _not_ GPIO (BCM) numbers, to maintain consistency across {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}} from different sources.

{{% /alert %}}

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

First, inspect the built-in class provided by the resource API that you are extending.

> For example, if you want to add support for a new [base component](/components/base/) to Viam, you would start by looking at the built-in base component class.

Reviewer 2: Grammar: If sentences that use conditional clauses must use past tense (simple past or past perfect) in the if-clause of the sentence

</details>
<br>

When implementing built-in methods from the Viam Python SDK in your model, be sure your implementation of those methods returns any values designated in the built-in function's return signature, typed correctly.
For example, the `is_moving()` implementation in the example code above returns a `bool` value, which matches the return value of the built-in `is_moving()` function as defined in the Viam Python SDK in the file [`base.py`](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-python-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/components/base/base.py).

For more information on the base component API methods used in this example, see the following resources:

- [Python SDK documentation for the `Base` class](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/components/base/index.html)
- [Base API methods](https://docs.viam.com/components/base/#api)

You can find additional Python example modules in the [Python SDK `examples` directory](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-python-sdk/tree/main/examples).

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Go"%}}

First, inspect the built-in package provided by the resource API that you are extending.

> For example, if you want to add support for a new [base component](/components/base/) to Viam, you would start by looking at the built-in base component package.

Reviewer 2: grammar (see above)

This matches the `error` return type of the built-in `SetPower()` method as defined in the Viam Go SDK in the file [`base.go`](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/components/base/base.go).

For more information on the base component API methods used in this example, see the following resources:

- [Go SDK documentation for the `base` package](https://pkg.go.dev/go.viam.com/rdk/components/base#pkg-functions)
- [Base API methods](https://docs.viam.com/components/base/#api)

You can find additional Go example modules in the [Go SDK `examples` directory](https://github.com/viamrobotics/rdk/blob/main/examples/).

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="C++" %}}

First, inspect the built-in class provided by the resource API that you are extending.

For example, if you wanted to add support for a new [base component](/components/base/) to Viam, you would start by looking at the built-in base component class.
The built-in `Base` class is defined in the [Viam C++ SDK](https://cpp.viam.dev/) in the following files:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
| Resource Model File | Description |
| ------------------- | ----------- |

> | [components/base/base.cpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/base/base.cpp) | Defines the specific functionality of the built-in `Base` class. |
> | [components/base/base.hpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/base/base.hpp) | Defines the implementation of functionality defined in `base.cpp`, which includes the declaration of several built-in functions such as `move_straight()`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [components/base/base.hpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/base/base.hpp) | Defines the API of the built-in `Base` class, which includes the declaration of several purely virtual built-in functions such as `move_straight()`. |
| [components/base/base.cpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/base/base.cpp) | Provides implementations of the non-purely virtual functionality defined in `base.hpp`. |
```

{{% alert title="Tip" color="tip" %}}
You can view the other built-in component classes in similar fashion.

> For example, the `Camera` class is defined in [camera.cpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/camera/camera.cpp) and its functions declared in [camera.hpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/camera/camera.hpp), while the `Sensor` class is defined in [sensor.cpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/sensor/sensor.cpp) and its functions declared in [sensor.hpp](https://github.com/viamrobotics/viam-cpp-sdk/blob/main/src/viam/sdk/components/sensor/sensor.hpp).

Reviewer 3: (minor) I think it would help to be slightly more explicit about the fact that resource base classes are all abstract, and the resource-y methods (`stop()`, `get_image()`, etc.) are not defined in, e.g., `camera.cpp`.
